== 800 Extra Dependencies

Some Rails applications require extra dependencies that need to be installed for certain portions of the application to run correctly. These dependencies can be installed once per server even with multiple Rails application running on the same machine. While these dependencies are not required for the Rails applications to run, they may be needed to allow certain components of the Rails application to behave correctly.

=== 810 LaTeX

  NOTE: Required for Slice and CHAT Publications

While the Ruby gem PDFKit allows a Rails application to quickly generate PDF documents directly from HTML, these often lack the quality that can be provided by compiling a PDF directly from LaTeX. Our first application using LaTeX PDF rendering using Embedded Ruby (ERB) is Slice. The Rails application will require the location of the pdflatex binary that is installed so that it can use this to render PDFs. Please note that this location is different depending on the operating system. Also note that TeX uses an {interesting versioning numbering system}[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_versioning#TeX] that progressively approaches the Greek letter pi.

==== Download and Install LaTeX (CentOS 5/6)

  sudo yum install tetex tetex-fonts tetex-dvips tetex-latex ghostscript

Verify LaTeX is installed

  which pdflatex

    /usr/bin/pdflatex

  pdflatex --version

    pdfeTeX 3.141592-1.21a-2.2 (Web2C 7.5.4)

==== Download and Install LaTeX (Mac OS X)

Download and install MacTeX pkg (recommended)  (~2.1 Gb)

  http://www.tug.org/mactex/

Verify LaTeX is installed

  which pdflatex

    /usr/texbin/pdflatex

  pdflatex --version

    pdfTeX 3.1415926-2.4-1.40.13 (TeX Live 2012)

==== Download and Install LaTeX (Windows)

Download and install MiKTeX (recommended) (~153 Mb)

  http://miktex.org/download

=== 820 WKHTMLTOPDF

  NOTE: Required for Slice (will be removed as a dependency though)

Download and install wkhtmltopdf

  cd ~/code/source

  wget http://wkhtmltopdf.googlecode.com/files/wkhtmltopdf-0.9.9-static-amd64.tar.bz2

  tar xvjf wkhtmltopdf-0.9.9-static-amd64.tar.bz2

  rm wkhtmltopdf-0.9.9-static-amd64.tar.bz2

  sudo mv ./wkhtmltopdf-amd64 /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf

Verify that the version

  /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf -V

  wkhtmltopdf 0.9.6

NOTE: Later versions (0.11.0) may install but silently fail when rendering PDFs
